Inline elements share the space.
where block element will take up the entire rest of the line.
this means that the next time will be booted to below the one above.
Div elements are division elements and they are block containers.
span elements are like div but inline containers.
horizontal line is hr
br is a line break
sup is super script like c^2 it raises the text up.
sub is sub script is like H2O where it would lower the 2.
Html Entites are special codes that will give special charaters. like the copy right symbol.

Semantic Markup
means something relating to meaning
so it meaningful to the html

main element
is like a div in what it does. but is the main content of the page.

section element
is like a div but for a section of infomation

nav element
is like a div but is for navigation sections

footer element
like a div but for the foot of the page.

aside element  
 is for a side bar

figure element
has a figcaption and image

all above are semantic elements. look at mdn documentation for more info.

the above div like elements help better orginaze a page than labeling them all as div.
the above is also useful for a clawer to navigate and find items on a page.

emmet is a tool that helps write html

Table elements

<table>
<td>: Table Data Cell Element (single cell)
<tr>: Tabke Row
<th>: Header Cell
<thead> wrap around headers of a table
<tbody> wrap around content of the table
<tfoot> wrap around total of table (bottom of table)
rowspan: it tells the table data (td) how many rows to take up
colspan: it tells the table data (td) how many columns to take up
<colgroup>
<capiton>

Form Element
it is a section that should hold interactive controls
the ACTION attribute specifies WHERE the form data should be sent
the method attribute specifies which HTTP method should be used.

The form element represents a document section containing interactive
controls for submitting information.

Input Element
The input element is used to create a variety of different form controls.

we have 20+ possible types of inputs, ranging from date pickers to checkboxes.

The type attribute is where the mage happens. Changing the type dramatically alters
the input's behavior and appearance.

id note: there should be no matching ids ever

the name element in an input is super important and should be in every input! video(51)

if you do not have a button in the form and the user hits enter. it WILL Submit the form.
you you can use a search bar with no button.